‎Welcome to Extraordinary Experiences,
‎where we hear faith-strengthening stories
‎from our brothers and sisters
‎serving in all different parts of the world.
‎We’re very happy today to have with us
‎Brother Miguel and Sister Normaryt Guillén,
‎serving at the branch in Venezuela.
‎They attended the 144th class of Gilead.
‎It’s very nice to have you here with us today.
‎Welcome.
‎Thank you.
‎Venezuela recently has been experiencing
‎serious economic problems.
‎Can you explain to us, Miguel,
‎just what the situation is presently?
‎In the past,
‎Venezuela was a normal country.
‎But for some years,
‎it has been suffering
‎a situation of civil unrest.
‎Right now there are severe shortages
‎of food and medicine
‎that make it very difficult
‎to find the most basic products.
‎So how do they cope with this challenge?
‎Well, they are seeking first the Kingdom
‎despite the situation.
‎They are happy, smiling, loving,
‎and sharing everything
‎they have between them.
‎So we can say
‎that despite their physical poverty,
‎they are more rich than ever
‎in love, faith, and generosity.
‎What an excellent example!
‎In this climate and in these circumstances,
‎how has the preaching work been affected?
‎Well, in some areas that are very dangerous
‎because there is
‎a lot of violence in the streets,
‎it’s amazing to see how,
‎even in this situation,
‎they have the courage to go
‎and share the good news to the people
‎because they know that people really need
‎to listen to the message at this moment.
‎During the first months
‎of this service year,
‎2,000 publishers got baptized,
‎and we have in the country
‎33,000 regular pioneers.
‎That’s remarkable to see such a spirit
‎—a pioneer spirit.
‎Normaryt,
‎what trials of our brothers and sisters
‎have affected you personally?
‎Well, the suffering of one family
‎really affected me.
‎First, men came to the Kingdom Hall
‎and stole all the belongings of the brothers
‎and the car of one brother of that family.
‎One month later,
‎the same men came to the Kingdom Hall
‎and they shot the father in the leg.
‎Because of this situation,
‎the sister (the mother) was very nervous
‎and the family decided to move
‎and to leave the country.
‎But when they were preparing
‎their documentation,
‎the mother was kidnapped,
‎and four days later,
‎she was killed.
‎When I heard that, I felt so bad
‎—so discouraged.
‎But that same weekend,
‎we went to the convention
‎—regional convention—
‎and it was so amazing
‎to see the brother who lost his wife
‎that same week giving a talk.
‎He was there speaking with serenity
‎about the experiences of Job.
‎It showed me
‎that Jehovah was helping them
‎with his holy spirit
‎and also was helping us
‎through them to face the situation.
‎Yes, and I am sure that this is just one
‎of many such situations in Venezuela.
‎How would you say that Jehovah is helping
‎the brothers to cope
‎and you to cope with this crisis?
‎Frankly, the situation
‎sometimes looks very, very scary.
‎But thanks to Gilead,
‎we don’t have fear to return,
‎not because we are so special
‎or so strong,
‎but if we have Jehovah with us,
‎there is no reason to fear.
‎And we want to transmit
‎these feelings to our beloved brothers.
‎Thank you.
‎Once in class,
‎the instructor was telling us
‎how important joy is
‎and how we can face
‎the situation in our assignments,
‎and he said that is only because “the joy
‎of Jehovah is [our] stronghold.”
‎In that moment, I had to cry.
‎I immediately thought about the brothers
‎and sisters in my congregation
‎—those families who had faced
‎so many difficult things.
‎How can they face that situation?
‎How can they be in the Kingdom Hall smiling,
‎sharing what they have?
‎How? How can they be like this
‎in this difficult time?
‎It’s because “the joy of Jehovah
‎is [our] stronghold.”
‎That’s a beautiful point, Normaryt.
‎Thank you very much,
‎and again we
‎thank you both very, very much
‎for sharing your experiences with us today.
‎Thank you.